---
layout: single
title: "Math for Machine Learning, Course 1"
permalink: /notes/deeplearning.ai/math-ml/1
mathjax: true
---

# Week 1

## Linear Relationship and Matrix

What is determinant of a matrix, and how does it relate to linear independence?

- The determinant of a matrix is a scalar value that can be computed from its elements.
- It provides information about the matrix, such as whether it is invertible or singular.
- A matrix is invertible if its determinant is non-zero.
- The determinant can be interpreted as a scaling factor for the volume of the space spanned by the matrix's columns.
- If the determinant is zero, it indicates that the columns of the matrix are linearly dependent, meaning they do not span the entire space.
- In other words, the determinant can be used to determine if a set of vectors (columns of the matrix) are linearly independent or dependent.

Example of linear equation and determinant:

Given 3 linear equations (with actual numbers):
- $a_1x + b_1y + c_1z = d_1$
- $a_2x + b_2y + c_2z = d_2$
- $a_3x + b_3y + c_3z = d_3$

$$
\begin{bmatrix}
a_1 & b_1 & c_1 \\
a_2 & b_2 & c_2 \\
a_3 & b_3 & c_3
\end{bmatrix}
\begin{bmatrix}
x \\
y \\
z
\end{bmatrix}
=
\begin{bmatrix}
d_1 \\
d_2 \\
d_3
\end{bmatrix}
$$
The determinant of the coefficient matrix is:

$$
\text{det} \begin{bmatrix}
a_1 & b_1 & c_1 \\
a_2 & b_2 & c_2 \\
a_3 & b_3 & c_3
\end{bmatrix}
= a_1(b_2c_3 - b_3c_2) - b_1(a_2c_3 - a_3c_2) + c_1(a_2b_3 - a_3b_2)
$$

- If the determinant is non-zero, the system of equations has a unique solution.
- If the determinant is zero, the system of equations may have no solution or infinitely many solutions.

# Week 2
## Row Echelon Form
- A matrix is in row echelon form if:
  - All non-zero rows are above any rows of all zeros.
  - The leading coefficient (the first non-zero number from the left) of each non-zero row is to the right of the leading coefficient of the previous row.
  - All entries below a leading coefficient are zeros.

## Effect on determination
1. If we multiply a row by a non-zero scalar, the determinant is multiplied by that scalar.
2. If we swap two rows, the determinant changes sign. (2x2)
3. If we add a row to another row, the determinant remains unchanged.

## Rank and singularity
- The rank of a matrix is the maximum number of linearly independent rows or columns in the matrix.
- A matrix is non-singular if its determinant is non-zero, meaning it has full rank.